Our ops workflow is essentially this- rfq is received from customer to Sales/NAM/AM. . Lane/project/specific requirements is researched-past similar load history, current pricing from DAT, Truckstop, Sonar. Quote is sent based off data with appropriate margin based on requirements and customer. Shipment is won or lost. If won, load is accepted via email or edi. Load is build in system by LC. Load is then scheduled for most favorable appt times. Target rate to sell to carrier is set, Load is then made available to the pod/team, depending on customer, to begin carrier coverage assignment. Ideally we want to have rates on file for as many lanes as possible we see frequently. If we don’t have a go to for the lane, we call all past history, starting with most recent. If no coverage is found, we then post to Highway TFX, DAT, and Truckstop. Postings should be posted as the nearest metro to nearest metro also, with comments stating true pu and delivery address. Some customers do not allow us to post actual pu and del cities, so we need to be able to control this on customer level. Posted equipment matching load criteria is also reached out to by reps proactively, once carrier is vetted. Inbound carriers interested in further load details must be vetted and qualified via highway and carrier411 first, then details can be provided. Sell to the good parts of a shipment: appt times, weight, going to good OB area, getting driver home(check carrier home base before negotiating), light shipment, etc. negotiate best rate possible, within buy ranges and balancing hard negotiating with guaranteed service (good carrier reviews, past history, etc). Once carrier agrees to take the load, load is then double checked that all details match within highway(even the slightest variance of domains, non verified phone numbers, etc is fraud and can get freight stolen. Compliance is the most important thing). Once identity is confirmed, gather dispatch name, phone, and email. Driver name and phone, truck, trailer, VIN. VIN needs to then be verified and confirmed active and nearby pickup location per ELD tracking. If all is still confirmed and valid, send rate confirmation only to email on file, never any outside email address. Once sent, confirm rate con is received and signed. If load is multiple days out, check daily at 9 am to confirm still g2g. Once day of pickup arrives, 3 hrs before pickup initiate check call/text to driver and dispatch, confirm ELD tracking is showing within area of pickup. If load picks before 0600 do 2 hours before. Verify all load details again, including all driver and dispatch info, confirm equipment and tracking checks out,  the. move load to dispatched status. Check ELD tracking every 30 minutes to ensure pickup is tracking on time. If any deviations or location to pickup calculation shows late, alert team/pod, and reach out to driver to ask for an update as we show they are tracking late. Once driver arrives at pickup, check back in 2 hours after arrival to ensure driver is loaded and enroute. If driver is not loaded begin detention accrual. (Detention needs to be controlled on customer level. Hours after appt to begin accrual, accrual time increments (minutes, hours), and detention amount. Driver must arrive on time for detention). Remind driver to get in and out times on BOL before leaving to confirm detention, then remind them to text, email, call, or update driver app with accurate times. Customer needs to be notified as well via their individual detention notification preference that detention is beginning, then customer needs notification once driver leaves of detention total time. Then once customer approved, record and charge detention to customer, and calculate and pay carrier based on our detention rate to carrier (needs to be customizable, we typically pay carrier after 3 hours whereas most customers pay us after 2). Confirm driver is enroute once he notifies he’s loaded, then check location every 30 minutes to ensure tracking for OTD. As long as driver has time for delivery, no notification needed if driver is not moving. If load is delivering next day, check location data every 30 minutes to ensure tracking on schedule, notify team of OTD starts to look tight. Make check text/call/email 2 hours before delivery to confirm OTD, then watch tracking and confirm driver has checked in 5 minutes after PU time. If any deviation or driver tracking starts to show late, notify team immediately. For loads with transit days between delivery, Schedule next check call for 0700 based on driver location. If on pacific time, set for 0600, and confirm driver location based on ELD and that driver is good for OTD until within delivery window. Follow same schedule for delivery call and detention accrual if needed. Once deliver is complete, request and receive POD from Driver and or dispatch and upload into the shipment. Attach all detention and accessorials, rate carrier based on performance, and deliver load to release to billing. Shipment is then invoiced per customer rules, and payment forecast is set and tracked until receipt.