I want you to work entirely via static analysis — do not run any scripts or commands against production, and do not change any data. You can run scripts against dev if you need to understand behavior, but treat DATABASE_URL in this Replit as a dev database only.

Goal: produce a clear incident runbook for our broken Quote Requests pipeline (inbound quote emails not appearing in /quote-requests), plus a safe production recovery runbook that an engineer can execute later.

Please:

Read scripts/recover-todays-quote-requests.ts and summarize exactly what it does, including: how it uses direction='inbound', how --since-days works, how it decides what to backfill, and why it is idempotent.

Using only code and prior diagnostics, explain why running that script against production right now would recover basically zero rows while inbound classification is broken (we currently have almost no direction='inbound' rows in prod).

Do a static analysis pass over the Microsoft Graph / email-ingestion stack (for example graphWebhook, mailboxDeltaSyncService, emailIngestion, etc.) to identify the most likely bug or bugs that would:

still fetch messages and update last_sync_at,

persist rows with empty from_email / subject / body, and

effectively stop creating direction='inbound' rows as of around 2026‑05‑02 00:00 UTC.
Base this purely on diffs and source, not on live queries.

Draft a P0 incident task I can paste into our tracker, including: suspected root cause areas, the specific files and functions to inspect first, temporary logging instrumentation you recommend adding, and concrete acceptance criteria for the fix.

Draft a production recovery runbook (commands only, no execution) that an engineer can run after the ingestion fix is deployed, using:

DATABASE_URL="$PRODUCTION_DATABASE_URL"

npx tsx scripts/recover-todays-quote-requests.ts --org-id=da3ed822-8846-4435-bb13-3cc4bf26f71d --since-days=3
Include: expected output shape, how to verify in SQL that inbound emails and quote opportunities are back, and how to re-run safely if needed.

Constraints:

Do not fabricate or use any production connection strings from within Replit.

Do not run the recovery script against any database unless I explicitly ask you to; for now I only want analysis and shell commands I can hand to on‑call.

Structure the final answer as a numbered incident runbook with clear headings so I can copy it straight into an internal doc.