I’m debugging our Customer Quotes / Quote Requests pipeline. Please read this situation carefully and then give me a precise, production-safe runbook — do not run any production commands yourself.

Context:

The Quote Requests page shows 0 open requests and 0 auto‑captured today, but we know customers are sending quote emails.

Logs and diagnostics show:

619 quote-related “signals” over the last 7 days, 341 marked as “leaked” (55% leak rate).

Example production email: subject “Quote request 5282-1” from AndreaAquino@rimlogistics.com.

autoCapturedToday = 0 despite those inbound emails.

The “Review Capture Leak Queue” button on /quote-requests was previously wired to admin-only routes and appeared to do nothing for non-admin reps; that’s now fixed and merged.

In production, for the last ~2–3 days, we see: 0 inbound email rows per day and thousands of outbound rows whose from_email, subject, and body are empty strings. Mailboxes still show “healthy” with frequent last_sync_at updates, and Graph webhooks/delta sync logs say they are fetching messages — but the persistence layer is misclassifying direction and/or dropping content.

There is an existing script scripts/recover-todays-quote-requests.ts that backfills quote requests from email_messages where direction = 'inbound'. It is idempotent and safe to re-run.

Important: this Replit environment points at DEV via DATABASE_URL. I must not run the recovery script against production from here. I only want a validated plan and commands I can hand to an engineer who does have production access.

What I want from you:

Inspect scripts/recover-todays-quote-requests.ts and summarize exactly what it does (especially any assumptions about direction, org id, and time-window flags like --since-days).

Confirm, by reading the code (not by executing against prod), why running this script right now against production would recover zero rows while inbound classification is broken (because there are 0 direction='inbound' rows for today).

Inspect the Microsoft Graph / email ingestion layer (e.g., outlookGraphService, emailIngestion, or equivalent) and identify the most likely bug that would:

still fetch messages and update last_sync_at,

but persist them with empty from_email/subject/body, and

stop marking any messages as direction = 'inbound' as of ~2026‑05‑02 00:00 UTC.
Use only static analysis and git history; do not run anything against production.

Draft an urgent incident fix task that I can file, including:

suspected root cause(s),

files/areas of code to inspect first,

specific logging we should add temporarily, and

a safe sequence to deploy and validate a fix.

Draft the exact production runbook for after the ingestion fix is deployed, including the commands an on‑call engineer should run (outside Replit) to backfill the last 3 days for org id da3ed822-8846-4435-bb13-3cc4bf26f71d. That runbook should:

show the npx tsx scripts/recover-todays-quote-requests.ts command with --since-days=3,

call out that the script is idempotent on (org, source='email', sourceReference), and

include verification steps (SQL or app-level) to confirm that new quote requests appear in the Quote Requests UI.

Constraints:

Treat DATABASE_URL in this Replit as dev only. You may run diagnostics against dev if helpful, but do not attempt to talk to production or fabricate a production URL.

Do not execute the recovery script against any database without asking me first; just show me the commands and expected output shapes.

Output must be a clear, step-by-step incident runbook I can paste into our internal task tracker and hand to our on‑call engineer.